So everybody, welcome to
Dissecting RequestDirectMove()! What
we're going to be doing here is actually reaching into the engine code, looking at
the RequestDirectMove() method, and then, getting logs
of these AI tanks, and laying them out
on the terrain so that we can see where our AI tanks are trying to go. It's
the stage before we actually make these AI tanks move, so this is going
to be fun. Let's go and get it done!
Hey guys, so with reference to the diagram we built in the last video,
we have the Nav Mesh in place, we want to go into our Tank AI
Controller, as a starting point, we're going to follow the arrows left to right, and we're going to go
and use this MoveToActor() method, that will be right there for us, because we're inheriting from
AI Controller. So into the Tank AI Controller then,
into the .cpp file! We already have a TODO that says "Move towards the player". I'm going to get rid of the
word TODO, under the tick method, and I am going to go ahead and say
MoveToActor() and I'm going to look at the signature of what comes up. [Laughs]
When it comes up, good old VisualStudio is still busy searching through
the 3, 4, 5 I'm not sure how many million lines of code
that is in the engine. So that is the dark side of having a large engine like this.
But anyway, in a moment this will come up. Here we go! it wants a pointer to an actor. Well we have one, it's
called the PlayerTank. And it also wants a whole bunch of other stuff,
including an AcceptanceRadius. Now I'm going to assume that's in centimeters, and
that it is the distance that, when the AI tank gets that close to you it
stops. Now we want that, we want about 100 meters away. We want the tank to, maybe a little
less, maybe 30 meters away. We want the enemy
tank to stop and start firing at us right, or at least just stop moving
towards us, rather than crowding us. So I'm going to make a default AcceptanceRadius of
30 meters, which is
1,000 centimeters, but I don't know for sure that's in centimeters. In fact, let's
check the documentation, I don't think it's going to be very helpful, "movetoactor
unreal". I could use this one here. It tells us about the blueprint, but it doesn't tell you what the
units of this AcceptanceRadius are, so that's not particularly helpful. So I'm
going to do the following. I'm going to say "// TODO check
radius is in" centimeters.
I'm then going to, instead of actually just putting a value in here, I'm going to make a
parameter which I can move in blueprint.
AcceptanceRadius. I'm not going to worry about the rest of these parameters, this StopOnOverlap.
Well it's default is to true, we'd want it to stop if we were to overlap
with the AI tank. We want it to use pathfinding, this would all be a massive waste of
time if we weren't. We probably don't want the tank to be able to strafe,
but it doesn't really make any difference, because we're going to be forcing it to
use our physics. And later on we're going to get rid of the ability to move sideways anyway, tanks don't
move. So you can't strafe a tank fool. And
the rest of it we're just going to ignore. It's all got default parameters, let's just go with the AcceptanceRadius.
So on the tank AI Controller header file, of course, we need to make ourselves
a private float called AcceptanceRadius, and I'm going to give it a default value
of 3,000, which I'm going to assume is in centimeters.
And why not say what it is? "How close can
the AI tank get" to the player.
Well that's it, just keep it simple. "How close can the AI tank
get". Fantastic! So let's put the header file on the left, just for OCD purposes
and Compile up! Now we're not going to see anything change here, because all we've done so far is
just make this call into the Pathfinding Logic. We're not going to know that that's working,
until we start intercepting the call into RequestDirect
Move(), which I'm going to give you the satisfaction of doing. But I just want to check that the game still
runs, we haven't done anything daft, and then, we can turn our attention to the right-hand
side. So inside the TankMovementComponent.cpp
file, we are going to need to create a
method, which is in here somewhere. It's going to be the
RequestDirectMove(), and of course, we'll have to declare it in the header file. We'll make it public to start
with, but before we even start, I'm going to say "check
best protection of this method, because we
don't know for sure it has to be public, but let's start with public to get it working.
And what I want you to do is go and find out what the signature of this RequestDirectMove() file is.
Whether you're in VisualStudio or Xcode, you can go to the Engine,
UE4, Source, Runtime, Engine, Classes,
and I'll give you this path in your challenge slide. GameFramework and eventually you will get to
the NavMovementComponent, which remember is what we are
inheriting from. This is the code that we are actually inheriting from, good old open source engine!
And in that NavMovementComponent, somewhere in this, you will find
the RequestDirectMove() that you need. So you're diving into the engine code! Get
RequestDirectMove() signature! Find the NaveMovementComponent.h header file. Copy the
signature of RequestDirectMove(), override it in your TankMovementComponent.h, just like
we override begin play. But there's no need to call Super this time, because we're completely
replacing the functionality, as to what we do when we move, we're manually doing that.
Log the tank name and the value of the MoveVelocity, and that is your path
you're looking for to go and find that file. So go ahead pause the video, see if you can make this
work now, and actually get some vector log values out that make sense, from
AI tanks that are inside the Nav Mesh for you.
OK
guys, welcome back! This is exciting, I'm looking forward to this! So I'm going to do a find "Request
Direct".
I'm going to look in just the current document and I can't find it!
So what have I done? I've missed an e! RequestDirectMove! There it
is, virtual void RequestDirectMove! It's nearly exactly what we need!
Let's go to the TankMovementComponent header file,
under here, I'm going to put it in the public section to start with. I've already got a TODO,
check that later; virtual void, I'm going to put the word override on the end, which makes
the compiler check this is exactly the right signature. That's cool, so I've got that!
Let's go into the .cpp, we need the class name in here,
and, of course, when you do these overrides, like we've done before, we drop the
word virtual. OK so there
we go! Now we don't need to call Super. Let's put a reason why, "No need to call Super
as we're replacing
the functionality" here.
We don't care what the functionality of this method is in the parent classes, I just care
that the Pathfinding Logic is calling this method
with a very useful piece of information, which is what velocity do I need the tank to
move in this frame? That's the bit of gold I want to capture from this! So
let's go capture it! Let's have a few things, I said we wanted the tank name, so the Tank
Name. We're on a component here, so we need to GetOwner(), and we go through the Owner
to the Name. It's already going to be a string, so that's done.
We're also going to have the.. Ah, we want the MoveVelocity
String.
So that is just going to be the MoveVelocity
.ToString() and that's good.
So now let's do our UE_LOG. I really ought to setup a keyboard shortcut for this, I type if often enough.
UE_LOG(LogTemp, Warning so it's yellow.
Text()) so well it works. [laughs] And then, we're going to say the name of the
tank, which is %s vectoring
to and then another string
and then we just say the TankName,
and the MoveVelocityString). Remembering
to put your stars in front, because we need to do that with strings in
UE-LOGs. We should know that by now. And finally, I think we have the
call that we need. Let's go ahead and see if it'll compile!
I'll leave the code on the screen for you. That is the implementation code.
The header file code was simply that.
Now,
about this... No now let's just get on with it, now that it's compiled so quickly! So ooh look at this!
Tank_BP_569 vectoring! Let's just stop the game for a minute
and have a little look. So it's only 569 that's vectoring
and it's vectoring in a minus. Now this is not a normalized vector,
and you could ignore the Z because it's value compared to the X
and Y is tiny. So it is moving in like 700,000
X and -700,000 X, 800,000 X coordinate,
-400,000 Y. So in the compass terms,
if X forward is north it's moving
in a sort of south, southwest
direction. So let's look from above and see if this is feasible.
Here's positive X and north is to the right confusingly. The Player Start
is there, so yeah that is a south southwest direction if this red arrow
goes north, so that looks very feasible. Let's bring the other tank onto the
play space, and let's put it say directly
what I would call south of us. This thing should vector, pretty much directly, along the X
axis. Let's try it! Now of course, you can't see it because
the log is obfuscated. There's a good word! Now you've got two tanks!
Let's check that the other one is the correct one. Yep, 183 is vectoring! Look
perfect, 66,000 in the X direction
and negligible in the others. Now it's got a pretty big Z, actually, on these.
14,000 is not completely negligible, so it is trying to have a
bit of a change in up, down, but we'll see whether that's a problem or whether it's working.
It might just be because my tank's still up in the air, at this point, when I'm logging, and once it
settles down, like now, that the Z yeah
has dropped a bit. Not completely, but it does have a 3 dimensional direction, but that's OK,
we're just going to look at the X and Y. But look, the triumph here is that if the AI
tanks are in this Nav Mesh and we are in the Nav Mesh that we're actually getting a
vector from them, as to the direction we should start moving. Now there's one final thing we should check here for
fun. We should take this tank and this other AI tank
and put it around the back of this place
like this, say here, and then, let's put the Player Start, on the other
side. Unless actually you just ditch the other tank out of the Nav Mesh area, just for
simplicity. OK, so this means that this tank BP2 or better known as
_183 is trying to get to the Player Start point, which is over here.
Let's make it actually due north of us or due
in the X direction of us, something like that. But the vector
should not be that direction, it should be up here, it should be northwest,
if you like, which should be positive X and a similar amount of negative
Y. Let's see if that's the case! Positive
X by 75, negative Y by hmm less than 75.
That means it's going quite directly towards
this hill and then it'll probably hug that hill. That's absolutely fine, but it looks about right.
The key is it's not heading directly towards us. If I move it closer to this hill
and further down here, this guy should now start trying to vector
in a fairly negative Y direction, up here to get
around the hill. Let's see! What's he doing? He's going X with
20,000...
You know what he's doing, I think he's trying to go around the other side of the hill! So what
I'm going to do to just check this is, I'm going to get the Nav Mesh Bounds Volume, move it
over the hill so it fully encompasses the hill, even if we need to make it
bigger.
Yeah, I'm just going to scale up my Nav Mesh
Bounds Volume to 200 by 200.
This is all good learning as to how this works. So it takes a little while to compute.
There it is, perfect! Now let's say the AI
tank is there and the Player Start position is here.
Let's see what type of vectoring the AI tank tries to do now!
Hey, let's look at this critically! It's 100 in the
negative X, so it's going back this way, but more significantly, it's
350,000 in the positive Y. So it's
kind of going this way, probably because it's near the base of a hill and it doesn't want to
go up that hill anymore. So we could put it somewhere else, like in this little alcove
here. You can see from the camera roughly where it is. Let's see where it tries to vector now!
OK and now let's look at that value. It's going -100 in the
X, so it's going backwards a little bit, and 350,000 positive in
the Y, so again it's probably just backing off that hill. So we're not going to really
know if this is doing the job properly, until we have actually started making
the move, which is going to be the subect of the next video!